Release 2.8 (previously 2.7.4) (#12057)
meteor/meteor: guide/source/2.8-migration.md

---
title: Migrating to Meteor 2.8
description: How to migrate your application to Meteor 2.8.
---

Meteor `2.8` introduce the new MongoDB Package Async API. For a complete breakdown of the changes, please refer to the [changelog](http://docs.meteor.com/changelog.html).

> For this new async API, we have new methods like `findOneAsync`, which behaves exactly like the `findOne` method, but it now returns a promise that needs to be resolved to get the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this new async API, we have new methods like `findOneAsync`, which behaves exactly like the `findOne` method, but now returns a promise that needs to be resolved to get the data.
```

> <h3 id="why-like-this">Why this is important?</h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<h3 id="why-like-this">Why is this new API important?</h3>
```

> You may know that on Meteor we use a package called [Fibers](https://github.com/laverdet/node-fibers). This package is what makes possible to call async function, like `db.findOne()`, inside Meteor in a sync way (without having to wait for the promise to resolve).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may know that on Meteor we use a package called [Fibers](https://github.com/laverdet/node-fibers). This package is what makes it possible to call an async function, like `db.findOne()`, inside Meteor in a sync way (without having to wait for the promise to resolve).  
```

But starting from Node 16, Fibers will stop working, so Meteor needs to move away from Fibers, otherwise, we'll be stuck on Node 14.

If you want to know more about the plan, you can check this [discussion](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/discussions/11505).

> <h3 id="why-now">Why doing this now?</h3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<h3 id="why-now">Why doing this change now?</h3>
```

With this version, you'll be able to start preparing your app for the future by replacing your current MongoDB methods with the new async ones.

<h3 id="what-is-new">What's new?</h3>

Here are the newly added methods (you can see this description and the code [here](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/pull/12028)):

**Added async methods on collections.**
 - All async methods have an Async suffix to their names. These are: `createCappedCollectionAsync`, `createIndexAsync`, `dropCollectionAsync`, `dropIndexAsync`, `findOneAsync`, `insertAsync`, `removeAsync`, `updateAsync`, and `upsertAsync`.

**Added async methods on cursors.**
 - All async methods have an Async suffix to their names. These are: `countAsync`, `fetchAsync`, `forEachAsync`, and `mapAsync`.
 - There's also `[Symbol.asyncIterator]`, so this code should work:
    ```js
    for await (const document of collection.find(query, options)) /* ... */
    ```

There is also a new Meteor method called `callAsync`. It should be used to call async methods.

<h3 id="how-do-i-update">How can I start using these new features?</h3>

> We got a few examples for making it easy to use these new feature, you can look the code snippet bellow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We got a few examples to make these new features easier to use, you can see the code snippet below:
```

```js
// SERVER

// Before 2.8, we would use something like this
export const removeByID = ({ id }) => {
  SomeCollection.remove({ _id: id });
};

// Now we can also do like this
export const removeByIDAsync = async ({ id }) => {
  await SomeCollection.removeAsync({ _id: id });
};

Meteor.methods({
   //...
   removeByID,
   removeByIDAsync,
});

// CLIENT

const result = Meteor.call('removeByID', { id });

// For the async, you call it like this:

const result = await Meteor.callAsync('removeByIDAsync', { id });

// or even like this:

Meteor.callAsync('removeByIDAsync', { id }).then(result => {
   console.log(result);
});
```

> More examples can be retrieved from [this commit](https://github.com/fredmaiaarantes/simpletasks/compare/main...mongodb-async-api).

Reviewer: This link is comparing one branch to another, but this URL can be broken once the second branch no longer exists. I think we should remove this URL from here and if there are good examples there we could bring them into this guide.

<h2 id="callasync">The new callAsync </h2>

As said before, the `callAsync` should be used to call async methods.

We do not consider this version of the `callAsync` as the final product. It has its limitations when your methods have a [stub](https://docs.meteor.com/api/methods.html#:~:text=was%20received%20on.-,Calling,and%20you%E2%80%99ll%20have%20to%20wait%20for%20the%20results%20from%20the%20server.,-If%20you%20do), and it should be used where you know it won't affect other parts of your application. 

> We'll continue working on it to find a solution where these limitations don't exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will revisit these limitations soon and try to find a solution where these limitations do not exist.
```

<h3 id="the-limitations">The callAsync limitations</h3>

If you have two methods with a [stub](https://docs.meteor.com/api/methods.html#:~:text=was%20received%20on.-,Calling,and%20you%E2%80%99ll%20have%20to%20wait%20for%20the%20results%20from%20the%20server.,-If%20you%20do), you should never call the second method if the stub of the first one is still running. You need to be sure that only one stub is running each time. So, for example:

```js
// This is ok, because methodWithoutStubAsync and methodWithoutStub 
// does not have a stub inside them:
Meteor.callAsync('methodWithoutStubAsync', { id }).then(result => {
   // do something
});

Meteor.call('methodWithoutStub', { id }, (error, result) => {
   // do something
})

// This is ok as well, because even though removeByIDAsync has a stub,
// methodWithoutStub does not have one, so both methods can run 
// at the same time:
Meteor.callAsync('removeByIDAsync', { id }).then(result => {
   // do something
});
Meteor.call('methodWithoutStub', { id }, (error, result) => {
   // do something
})

// This is also ok, because even though removeByID has a stub
// (SomeCollection.remove({ _id: id })), it is a sync method, 

> // so by the time removeByIDAsync runs, not stub will be running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// so by the time removeByIDAsync runs, no stub will be running:
```

Meteor.call('removeByID', { id }, (error, result) => {
   // do something
});
Meteor.callAsync('removeByIDAsync', { id }).then(result => {
   // do something
});

> // But, this is NOT ok, because you would have two alive stubs at the same time:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// But, this is NOT ok, because you would have 2 stubs running at the same time:
```
Wouldn't this make it more clear?

In this example, depending on how fast the user types, you could end up calling both methods at the same time or calling one of them while the stub of another is still alive. Meaning that your code won't work property. 

One strategy here to avoid this could be to change the user status to ONLINE inside the method `updateText`, instead of calling a method to do it.

The same goes for the job that updates the user status to OFFLINE. You could create this job in the server side, leaving on the client just the call for the method `updateText`.

<h3 id="recommendation-for-future">Our recommendation for the future</h3>

We recommend that you start to write new methods and publications using async from this version forward, forcing internal APIs to also be async with time. And, of course, also updating your current ones. As soon you start, the better.

But do it with caution, and keeping in mind the cases mentioned above.

<h3 id="should-i-update">Can I update to this version without changing my app?</h3>

Yes. You can update to this version without changing your app.

> <h2 id="older-versions">Migrating from a version older than 2.8?</h2>

Reviewer: I would move this question and answer to the beginning of the migration guide.

With this version, you'll be able to start preparing your app for the future by replacing your current MongoDB methods with the new async ones.

<h3 id="what-is-new">What's new?</h3>

Here are the newly added methods (you can see this description and the code [here](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/pull/12028)):

**Added async methods on collections.**
 - All async methods have an Async suffix to their names. These are: `createCappedCollectionAsync`, `createIndexAsync`, `dropCollectionAsync`, `dropIndexAsync`, `findOneAsync`, `insertAsync`, `removeAsync`, `updateAsync`, and `upsertAsync`.

**Added async methods on cursors.**
 - All async methods have an Async suffix to their names. These are: `countAsync`, `fetchAsync`, `forEachAsync`, and `mapAsync`.
 - There's also `[Symbol.asyncIterator]`, so this code should work:
    ```js
    for await (const document of collection.find(query, options)) /* ... */
    ```
**A few internal methods are now async.**
 
 - These are: `MongoConnection` (constructor), `MongoInternals.RemoteCollectionDriver` (constructor), `MongoInternals.defaultRemoteCollectionDriver`, `OplogHandle` (constructor).

> Adding these async counterparts allows gradual migration, as both versions will coexist for the time being. At the moment, all async methods are calling sync one directly, so all hooks and wrappers should work as expected.

Reviewer 3: Since https://github.com/meteor/meteor/pull/12097 they no longer are. (It also impacts the comments below.)
